# MobileArchitectureAndProgramming

### Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
I designed an applciation for inventory management. This application was created to provide a way for small to medium business owners, as well as single households, a way to track inventory. This could be keeping track of inventory to sell as well as keeping track of business or household goods the user needs. There were many goals and functions this application needed to have so that it could function correctly. The first goal is that there should be a database where user login information is housed. If a user logs in with the correct information, it should take the user to the inventory management screen. If the user logs in with incorrect information, or it isn't found, it should alert the user. If a user does not have an account they should be able to create and register for a new one. There should be a database that stores the inventory information, and displays it in a grid. A user should be able to add a new item, delete an item, update an item, and display all items on the inventory manager screen. Finally, a user should be able to enable or disable SMS messages that will alert them when inventory for an item reaches 0. The app can function with this feature being enabled or disabled. 

### What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
I made use of five screens to support user needs and create a user-centered app interface. The initial screen that a user comes to is the login screen where a user can login to an exisiting account or create a new one. Once they login, they are taken to the inventory item list screen. In this screen a user can see what items they curreently have in their inventory as well as edit the items. Their is an edit item screen where a user can update or delete an already existing item as well. There is a screen specifically allocated to toggling SMS messaging on or off as well. The final screen is simply to set up the list view of the inventory screen. Overall, I think my design is very intuitive. It also follows the same theme, and in my opinion it is very user friendly. It kept the user in mind by providing all the necessary functionality, as well as making it easy for the user to make changes to their inventory. 

### How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?

### How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
I tested my code by simply running through tests of the functionality. I created users, tried to login with incorrect login information, logged in with correct information, added inventory, edited inventory, and toggled SMS messaging on and off. My testing revealed that my app in the end functioned as I wanted and expected it to! 

### Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
When creating the inventory view, I had to innovate a little. I used recycler view to create my grid view - this allowed me to have icons to increment and decrement quantity from the grid view without having to go to the edit item screen. I didn't know how I was going to achieve the functionality I wanted using a grid view. The answer was to use recycler view instead so that each item has a way to edit it specifically, and reuse the same line for every item that is added to the inventory database. In the end I was able to achieve exactly what I wanted for both the user interface and the functionality behind the iterface. 

### In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I was really happyt with how my user interface turned out. The theme and intuitive nature of my design allows for a user to pick up the application and use it without much explanation. My theme of mainly purple, white, and black also turned out very clean. Behind the user interface, I achieved the functionality I needed through my use of a database for login information as well as a inventory item database. My use of these databases ensured that my UI was successful. I am extremely proud of the application I was able to create.
